# Safe-Communication-using-Polyalphabetic-Substitution-Cipher-Homophonic-Cipher
The need for a secure communication gives rise to concept of cryptography. Data encryption or ciphering translates data into another form, or code, so that only people with access to a secret key (formally called a decryption key) or password can read it. Encrypted data is commonly referred to as ciphertext, while unencrypted data is called plaintext. Cryptography or cryptology is the practice and study of techniques for secure communication in the presence of third parties called adversaries. In cryptography, a cipher is an algorithm for performing encryption or decryption—a series of well-defined steps that can be followed as a procedure. Computational cryptography deals with the storage and processing of sensitive information in computer systems by enciphering. Sensitive information is information that for some reason must be protected from being disclosed to individuals without proper authorization. Cryptographic techniques appear to be one of the most simple and secure methods of providing this much needed protection. In this project, our aim is to implement data encryption using the Homophonic cipher so as to enable secure communication between various systems. Homophonic cipher is a simple enciphering technique that can be used to encode sensitive data in computer systems. This cipher has properties that make it possible to do editing on data within the computer without decoding. The Homophonic Substitution cipher is a substitution cipher in which single plaintext letters can be replaced by any of several different ciphertext letters. They are generally much more difficult to break than standard substitution ciphers. Homophonic ciphering technique has various applications in real world, one of the major applications being in the military communication.
